Code Repository for our SPTT and SPTEdu-seq. 
### Subdirectory descriptions:
1. `Benchmark`: scripts that used in the benchmarking with published methods, including comparing gene body coverage(conducted by RSeQC), unspliced reads ratio(conducted by Velocyto) etc.
2. `SPTT_MouseBrain`: scripts that used for analyzing the mouse brain sample profiled by SPTT, including the construction of GMM model to determine the tissue boundaries, unsupervised clustering and spatial cell type deconvolution with the assistance of downloaded scRNA-seq reference.
3. `SPTT_MOB`: scripts that used for analyzing the MOB sample profiled by SPTT, similar to the scripts in `SPTT_MouseBrain`
4. `SPTEdu_IS`: scripts that used for analyzing the induced ischemia mouse brain samples profiled by our SPTEdu-seq. Besides the regular transcriptomes, we implemented a unique tag identifier(UTI) and designed a 3-step filtering strategy to discover the nascent cells in the recovery post injury. The scripts in this folder illustrated how to perform this analysis. Scripts for unsupervised clustering, communication analysis between cell groups, and the pseduotime trajectory analysis for UTI enriched cells were also contained in this directory. 
5. `Upstream`: scripts that used for preprocessing the fastqs for samples generated by SPTT or SPTEdu-seq. For the linker sequences in R1 to filter out, please follow the instructions in the `Readme.md` in the `align` subdirectory.
### Data generated for this paper:
1. Raw data under GEO accession number: GSE283159
2. Processed data at figshare: https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.27923973
